[Term Entry] PHP String Function: htmlentities() (#3214)
Codecademy/docs: content/php/concepts/string-functions/terms/htmlentities/htmlentities.md

---
Title: 'htmlentities()'
Description: 'Converts all applicable characters to HTML entities.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Web Design'
  - 'Web Development'
Tags:
  - 'Strings'
  - 'Functions'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-php'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

The **`htmlentities()`** function converts characters to HTML entities. To convert HTML entities back to characters, use the `html_entity_decode()` function.

## Syntax

```pseudo
htmlentities(string, flags, encoding, double_encode)
```

**The predefined characters are**:

|Characters|Convert to|Result|
|---|---|---|
|& (ampersand)|becomes|\&amp;|
|" (double quote)|becomes|\&quot;|
|' (single quote)|becomes|\&#039;|
|< (less than)|becomes|\&lt;|
|> (greater than)|becomes|\&gt;|

The `htmlentities()` function has one required parameter and three optional parameters:

> - `$string`: Required. Specifies the `string` to convert.

Reviewer: I think we should move the parameter descriptions together, and move all the constant tables after the syntax section into their own section.

    | ENT_COMPAT    | Default. Encodes only double quotes from `$string`|
    | ENT_QUOTES    | Encodes double and single quotes from `$string`   |
    | ENT_NOQUOTES  | Does not encode any quotes from `$string`|

  - Invalid encoding:

    | Constant Name  | Description |
    |---|---|                                                                                                                                    
    | ENT_IGNORE| Ignores invalid encoding instead of having the function return an empty string. Should be avoided, as it may have security|                        
    | ENT_SUBSTITUTE | Replaces invalid encoding for a specified character set with a Unicode Replacement Character U+FFFD (UTF-8) or &#FFFD; instead of returning an empty string.s |
    | ENT_DISALLOWED | Replaces code points that are invalid in the specified doctype with a Unicode Replacement Character U+FFFD (UTF-8) or &#FFFD;|                

  - Additional flags for specifying the used doctype:

    | Constant Name | Description|
    | ------------- | --------------------------------- |
    | ENT_HTML5     | Handle code as HTML 5|
    | ENT_XHTML     | Handle code as XHTML|

> - `$encoding`: An optional argument defining the encoding used when converting characters. If omitted, `$encoding` defaults to the value of the `default_charset` configuration option. Although this argument is technically optional, you are highly encouraged to specify the correct value for your code if the `default_charset` configuration option may be set incorrectly for the given input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `$encoding`: An optional argument defining the encoding used when converting characters. If omitted, `$encoding` defaults to the value of the `default_charset` configuration option. Although this argument is technically optional, it is highly encouraged to specify the correct value for the code if the `default_charset` configuration option may be set incorrectly for the given input.
```

---
Title: 'htmlentities()'
Description: 'Converts all applicable characters to HTML entities.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Web Design'
  - 'Web Development'
Tags:
  - 'Strings'
  - 'Functions'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-php'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

The **`htmlentities()`** function converts characters to HTML entities. To convert HTML entities back to characters, use the `html_entity_decode()` function.

## Syntax

```pseudo
htmlentities(string, flags, encoding, double_encode)
```

The `htmlentities()` function has one required parameter and three optional parameters:

> - `$string`: Required. Specifies the `string` to convert.
> - `$flags`: Optional. Specifies how to handle quotes, invalid encoding and the used document type. Ex: ENT_QUOTES | ENT_SUBSTITUTE | ENT_HTML5.
> - `$encoding`: An optional argument defining the encoding used when converting characters. If omitted, `$encoding` defaults to the value of the `default_charset` configuration option. Although this argument is technically optional, it is highly encouraged to specify the correct value for the code if the `default_charset` configuration option may be set incorrectly for the given input.
> - `$double_encode`: Optional. Specifies whether to encode existing HTML entities. TRUE - Default. Will convert everything. FALSE - Will not encode existing html entities.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `$string`: Required parameter that specifies the `string` to convert.
- `$flags`: Optional parameter that specifies how to handle quotes, invalid encoding, and the used document type. Ex: ENT_QUOTES | ENT_SUBSTITUTE | ENT_HTML5.
- `$encoding`: Optional argument defining the encoding used when converting characters. If omitted, `$encoding` defaults to the value of the `default_charset` configuration option. Although this argument is technically optional, it is highly encouraged to specify the correct value for the code if the `default_charset` configuration option may be set incorrectly for the given input.
- `$double_encode`: Optional parameter that specifies whether to encode existing HTML entities. Defaults to `TRUE`; will convert all entities in the string. If set to `FALSE`, the function will not encode existing html entities.
```

    | ENT_QUOTES    | htmlentities() function encodes double and single quotes from `$string`   |
    | ENT_NOQUOTES  | htmlentities() function does not encode any quotes from `$string`|

  - Invalid encoding:

    | Constant Name  | Description |
    |---|---|                                                                                                                                    
    | ENT_IGNORE| htmlentities() function ignores invalid encoding instead of having the function return an empty string. Should be avoided, as it may have security|                        
    | ENT_SUBSTITUTE | htmlentities() function replaces invalid encoding for a specified character set with a Unicode Replacement Character U+FFFD (UTF-8) or &#FFFD; instead of returning an empty string.s |
    | ENT_DISALLOWED | htmlentities() function replaces code points that are invalid in the specified doctype with a Unicode Replacement Character U+FFFD (UTF-8) or &#FFFD;|                

  - Additional flags for specifying the used doctype:

    | Constant Name | Description|
    | ------------- | --------------------------------- |
    | ENT_HTML5     | htmlentities() function handles code as HTML 5|

>     | ENT_XHTML     | htmlentities() function handles code as XHTML|

Reviewer 2: Can you move these to underneath the flags bullet point on line 28

  - Character sets that are supported:
    |Charset|Aliases|Description|
    |---|---|---|
    |ISO-8859-1|ISO8859-1|htmlentities() function works with Western European, Latin-1 charset.|
    |ISO-8859-15|ISO8859-15|htmlentities() function works with Western European, Latin-9. Adds the Euro sign, French and Finnish letters missing in Latin-1 (ISO-8859-1) charset.|
    |UTF-8||htmlentities() function works with ASCII compatible multi-byte 8-bit Unicode charset.|
    |cp866|ibm866, 866|htmlentities() function works with DOS-specific Cyrillic charset.|
    |cp1251|Windows-1251, win-1251, 1251|htmlentities() function works with Windows-specific Cyrillic charset.|
    |cp1252|Windows-1252, 1252|htmlentities() function works with Windows specific charset for Western European chatset.|
    |MacRoman||htmlentities() function works with charset that was used by Mac OS.|

>     > **Note:** Any other character sets are not recognized. The default encoding will be used instead and a warning will be emitted.

Reviewer 2: Move this to underneath the encoding param point on line 29

> **Note:** The `htmlentities()` function returns the converted `$string`. However, if the `$string` parameter contains invalid encoding, it will return an empty `$string`, unless either the `ENT_IGNORE` or `ENT_SUBSTITUTE` flags are set

**Entities that will be encoded**:

|Characters|Convert to|Result|
|---|---|---|
|& (ampersand)|becomes|\&amp;|
|" (double quote)|becomes|\&quot;|
|' (single quote)|becomes|\&#039;|
|< (less than)|becomes|\&lt;|

> |> (greater than)|becomes|\&gt;|

Reviewer 2: There's an HTML entities entry with a table of entities. The note is good, just add a period to the end of the note.

## Example

The following example uses the `htmlentities()` function to convert special characters in the string `"<b>Welcome!!!</b>;"` to HTML entities:

```php
<?php

>   $str = "<b>Welcome!!!</b>"

Reviewer 2: missing semi-colon at end here

---
Title: 'htmlentities()'
Description: 'Converts all applicable characters to HTML entities.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Web Design'
  - 'Web Development'
Tags:
  - 'Strings'
  - 'Functions'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-php'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

The **`htmlentities()`** function converts characters to HTML entities. To convert HTML entities back to characters, use the `html_entity_decode()` function.

> **The predefined characters are**:

Reviewer: @phuongtrieu97coder This section belongs under Syntax.

---
Title: 'htmlentities()'
Description: 'Converts all applicable characters to HTML entities.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Web Design'
  - 'Web Development'
Tags:
  - 'Strings'
  - 'Functions'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-php'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **`htmlentities()`** function converts characters to HTML entities. To convert HTML entities back to characters, use the **[html_entity_decode()](../html-entity-decode/html-entity-decode.md)** function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`htmlentities()`** function converts characters to HTML entities. To convert HTML entities back to characters, use the `html_entity_decode()` function.
```
Two things here: 1) we cannot link to an article that hasn't been merged unless it's in the same PR. 2) The link to the entry does not go to the GitHub repository, it would be linking to `https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/php/string-functions/html-entity-decode`

> ## Syntax

Author: Could you be more specific, give me some examples

```pseudo

> htmlentities(string,flags,encoding,double_encode)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
htmlentities(string, flags, encoding, double_encode)
```

```

> The `htmlentities()` function has one required parameter and three optional parameters:

Author: @SSwiniarski I have some solutions like below and wonder what the most suitable solution for this case is.

+Should I just provide information about the string parameter, a little bit about $flag, $encoding, $double_encode then lead users into find more information from php.net website? 

+Should I just specify 3-4 constant name with description for the $flag parameter, and 3-4 Charset with Aliases and description for the $encoding parameter? I just feel like the information is too long and I want to lead users to outside resources like w3school, or php.net for more information

+Should I keep all the details like I just wrote and just write the description in my way so that users can understand them easier?

> The `htmlentities()` function has one required parameter and three optional parameters:

Reviewer: @phuongtrieu97coder keep what you have and rewrite to the language isn't a copy of another website. You can trim down the list of constants, but we don't like linking to outside documentation in Docs.

    |cp1252|Windows-1252, 1252|Windows specific charset for Western European.|
    |KOI8-R|koi8-ru, koi8r|Russian.|
    |BIG5|950|Traditional Chinese, mainly used in Taiwan.|
    |GB2312|936|Simplified Chinese, national standard character set.|
    |BIG5-HKSCS||Big5 with Hong Kong extensions, Traditional Chinese.|
    |Shift_JIS|SJIS, SJIS-win, cp932, 932|Japanese|
    |EUC-JP|EUCJP, eucJP-win|Japanese|
    |MacRoman||Charset that was used by Mac OS.|
    |''||An empty string activates detection from script encoding (Zend multibyte), default_charset and current locale (see nl_langinfo() and setlocale()), in this order. Not recommended.|

    > **Note:** Any other character sets are not recognized. The default encoding will be used instead and a warning will be emitted.

- `$double_encode`: Optional. Specifies whether to encode existing HTML entities. TRUE - Default. Will convert everything. FALSE - Will not encode existing html entities.

<br>

The `htmlentities()` function returns the converted `$string`. However, if the `$string` parameter contains invalid encoding, it will return an empty `$string`, unless either the `ENT_IGNORE` or `ENT_SUBSTITUTE` flags are set

<br>

> ## Changelog
> 
> | Version | Description|
> | ------- | ------|
> | 8.1.0   | flags changed from ENT_COMPAT to ENT_QUOTES \| ENT_SUBSTITUTE \| ENT_HTML401.|
> | 8.0.0   | encoding is nullable now.|
> 
> <br>
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Remove this.

## Example

> The following example uses the `htmlentities()` function to convert the string `"Welcome!!!"` to HTML entities:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example uses the `htmlentities()` function to convert special characters in the string `"<b>Welcome!!!</b>;"` to HTML entities:
```

```php
<?php
  $str = "<b>Welcome!!!</b>"
  echo htmlentities($str);
?>
```

The example will result in the following HTML output (View Source):

```shell
&lt;b&gt;Welcome!!!&lt;/b&gt;
```

The browser output of the code above will be:

```shell
<b>Welcome!!!</b>
```

> 
> <br>
> 
> ## Codebyte Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Codebyte Example
```
